---
title: "Oral presentation on Study of electrochemical actuation of functionalized Ti2C3Tx Mxene by in-situ measurements at microscale"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "74th Annual Meeting of the International Society of Electrochemistry"
date: 2023-08-04
location: "Lyon, France"
---

Two-dimensional Mxenes show actuation behavior because of their tunable interlayer distance. In principle, the positively charged ions intercalate into MXene layers and attract the negatively charged surface to generate strain that results in the actuation of the material under negative polarization. In this presentation, we attempt to characterize the electrochemical actuation of MXene-based films through in-situ techniques at microscale. First, the reversible intercalation/deintercalation of ions was evidenced by Raman spectroscopy and electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) investigations.  By following the in-plane and out-of-plane vibrational modes using Raman spectroscopy it was found that the intensity of out-of-plane vibrations decreased due to ion intercalation. This could be a result of the reduction of phonon vibration caused by the decrease in interlayer distance, as elucidated by Come et al1. We also observed the shift (~4-5 cm-1) in in-plane vibrations towards high frequency as seen by Sarycheva and Gogotsi2. This may be related to the lateral displacement of the sample flakes. EQCM analysis offered another entry for quantifying the intercalation/deintercalation, and it could analyze the time response by applying different potential scan rates. Secondly, the deformation of MXene samples was studied by scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM). Taking advantage of the positive feedback current vs. probe-sample distance relationship, the deformation of the electrode was quantitatively analyzed with different applied potentials as shown in Figure 1. The line scan between two fixations of the sample revealed the topography change of the electrodes during actuation. We further explored specifically the in-plane deformation by scanning gel electrochemical microscopy (SGECM). In the final step, the local actuation force was measured by in-situ AFM and capacitive force sensing measurements. The preliminary results indicate that the methylcellulose-functionalized films generate force that is 4-5 times higher than unfunctionalized samples. The comprehensive microscopic analysis may reveal local electrochemical actuation behavior of MXene-based electrodes, which are consistent with results from macroscopic actuators3. It would guide the micro-structuring of electrodes for improved performance in various applications such as artificial muscles, soft robotics, tactile displays, bionics, switches, and converters.


