---
title: "Analysis of electrochemical actuators based on functionalized Ti2C3Tx MXene at microscale"
collection: talks
type: "Oral Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2014-02-01-talk-2
venue: "International Conference on Materials for Advanced Technologies (ICMAT)"
date: 2023-05-30
location: "Singapore"
---

MXene-based electrochemical actuators convert electrical energy into mechanical energy through deformation of electrodes as a consequence of intercalation/deintercalation of ions. They are used as low-voltage alternative to piezoelectric actuators in various applications such as soft robotics, nano- and micro-electronics, and artificial muscles. Evaluation of their performance and understanding the actuation mechanism is thus interesting for the development of materials and devices. Apart from macroscopic characterizations, in this work we will demonstrate the in-situ analysis of electrochemical actuation on MXene-based electrodes at microscale. In-situ Raman spectroscopy reveals the structural changes of electrodes as a result of applying potential, which is believed to be related to the ion intercalation that changes the vibration energy modes of MXene. This is further supported by electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) measurements, and the response time of the electrodes is analyzed by different potential scan rate. The electrochemical actuation effect is locally analyzed by scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM). Taking advantage of the current on the microelectrode sensitively depending on the probe-sample distance, the deformation of the electrode is quantitatively analyzed with different applied potential. Line scan is also performed between two fixing points of the electrode, which gives full topography of the electrode during actuation. The results indicate that the methylcellulose-functionalized MXene films have almost twice deformation than unfunctionalized films, which are consistent with previous experiments at macroscale. Moreover, the local actuation force is analyzed with a micro-force sensing setup. Preliminary results indicate that the methylcellulose-functionalized films may generate force that is 4-5 times higher than unfunctionalized samples. The comprehensive microscopic analysis may reveal local electrochemical actuation behavior of MXene-based electrodes, which would guide the micro-structuration of electrodes for improved performance in tactile display devices.
